# Trackers

For use in a tool like [Pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net). Below are URLs for 
direct import.

### Trackers
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/herrbischoff/trackers/master/trackers.txt>

Covers manually spotted trackers, marketing bullshit and other nuisances. May 
be considered a bit aggressive — but not too much. Shouldn't break any sites. 
If it does, just manually whitelist. If something breaks the layout of 
Bloomberg, for example, but I can still read the content properly, I couldn't 
care less. If a questionable external dependency (or really, *any* external 
dependency) breaks your layout: congratulations, your layout is crap and you're 
Doing it Wrong™.

### Domains
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/herrbischoff/trackers/master/domains.txt>

Domain list for really bad domain names that are probably not covered in other 
blocklists. And yes, I consider Facebook to be really bad, actively harmful, 
read: abusive. Like a spouse that hits and manipulates you, yet you constantly 
make up excuses and are afraid to leave. If at this point you don't, maybe it's 
time to reconsider your life choices and get help. There are people who will 
support your decision and life is better on the other side.

### Telemetry
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/herrbischoff/trackers/master/telemetry.txt>

Domain list list extracted directly from local networks that monitor excessive 
requests to certain domains. Those are almost always telemetry services run by 
vendors. If you just want to use those and skip the more aggressive approach, 
feel free to do so.

### Crap
<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/herrbischoff/trackers/master/crap.txt>

This covers sites with mainly junk content, which are manipulative or are 
polluting search results, trying to sell you useless software or services and 
generally have very low information density. Often, the only reason they exist 
is for search engine marketing to shove ads in your face, providing nothing of 
substance. When I encounter such a site, it gets added here. It is highly 
opinionated and I will not accept removal requests for anything it contains.

## Women Empowerment in Zanzibar

Send a little karma down the way and support women empowerment in Zanzibar by 
helping to [fund the local production of reusable female hygiene 
products](https://www.gofundme.com/f/women-empowerment-in-zanzibar). A very 
dear friend of mine runs the project. They were already able to buy hundreds of 
educational books. Sometimes, it takes so little to make a huge impact. If 
you'd like to thank me or support this work, donate. Additionally, any current 
and future sponsoring of my work via GitHub or other channels will flow one 
hundred percent to the NGO.
